Chris Alliman MD: Alright. Hello this is Dr. Solomon. This is New Mexico, New patient intake dated May 26 starting at about 7:30pm
Chris Alliman MD: patient's name is Vernon Ortega, date of birth is
Vernon Ortega: 1213 1974 well good.
Chris Alliman MD: Roman is are you Berlin.
Vernon Ortega: Yes, I am. Are you
Chris Alliman MD: I'M DOING WORLD Vernon. Do you go by burn burnin. What do you go away.
Vernon Ortega: Anything except can call me anything except for late for dinner.
Chris Alliman MD: Very nice, very nice.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, Vernon. Alright, sounds good. So Vernon, I understand we're talking about Suboxone today, is that correct
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, I don't know anything about you. So give me your story tell me what's going on.
Vernon Ortega: On I've been added for 25 to 30 years already, everyone.
Vernon Ortega: Did it messed up my back. And that's how I started doctors or unhealthy minutes I just became our own doctor, I guess.
Huh.
Yep.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, sounds good. So
Vernon Ortega: Have you been
Chris Alliman MD: Have you been using heroin consistently for these 2530 years we're on the line with what's happened
Vernon Ortega: Yeah, I
Vernon Ortega: Quit a few times and will back on and off and on.
Vernon Ortega: But more often than anything else.
Chris Alliman MD: When you get those times. What did you do to quit.
Vernon Ortega: Just cold turkey just
Vernon Ortega: Getting harder and harder and harder and harder because it's getting everywhere.
Vernon Ortega: Right yeah absolutely need you here. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah.
Vernon Ortega: Closer to home.
Yeah, certain art.
Vernon Ortega: From my parents.
Chris Alliman MD: Let me know when you're ready, and you're in a good space.
Vernon Ortega: I'm good, I'm good. Now,
Vernon Ortega: Alright, sounds good. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: I think we're losing I'm losing the plane.
All started
Vernon Ortega: Okay, let me go back here a little further.
Vernon Ortega: In a better area.
Vernon Ortega: You hear me better
Chris Alliman MD: Yes, I can hear you better now. Absolutely.
Vernon Ortega: Yes, yes I hurt my back. And ever since then doctors do want to help me and
Vernon Ortega: I got introduced to it and
Vernon Ortega: I've been on it ever since then.
Chris Alliman MD: What happened with the back. When did you heard it. What was the accidental injury.
Vernon Ortega: I was doing some landscaping lifting heavy rocks and whatnot of flags.
Chris Alliman MD: Last year again.
Vernon Ortega: Support belt.
Chris Alliman MD: So hold on, hold on, Vernon, I lost you a while ago, you were saying that you were doing landscaping and lifting heavy rocks.
Vernon Ortega: Yes. Yeah, I used to work for my brother in law. That's how I hurt my back.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, and
Chris Alliman MD: That was about 30 years ago.
Vernon Ortega: Know about 20
Chris Alliman MD: About 20 years ago.
Chris Alliman MD: So we're using heroin word we're using heroin before the back injury, then
Vernon Ortega: No, no, I think I might have exaggerated on the time
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, fair enough. I just want to make sure I understand. So more like 20 years ago.
Chris Alliman MD: You
Chris Alliman MD: Were you on pills were doctors, giving you pills. What did you do for the back after the injury.
Vernon Ortega: Of doctors weren't helping me just this ibuprofen and they were messing up my stomach and I got introduced to the heroin and
Vernon Ortega: I've been on it since then.
Vernon Ortega: Okay, just tired.
Vernon Ortega: TIRED. TIRED. TIRED.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. What is your motivation to get off, besides being tired. What's, what are you tired.
Vernon Ortega: Tired of the hustling and every day. It's the same waking up sick meeting or meeting the ship.
Chris Alliman MD: Yes.
Vernon Ortega: Just done with it.
Vernon Ortega: Yeah. Then I got I got two grandkids. Now I don't want them to see grandpa all
Vernon Ortega: Messed up so
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: That's a big motivation, you know, kids grandkids. That's a big motivation.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, absolutely. So when was the last time to use heroin.
Chris Alliman MD: This morning, okay.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. And how much do you usually use and how often do you use it during the day, like good
Vernon Ortega: All the money I get goes to it i mean i i'm not i don't i don't steal. I work every day I go look for jobs here and there.
Vernon Ortega: And all that money goes to it.
Vernon Ortega: I mean,
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, so it's, yeah, it pretty much takes up your entire day. It sounds like
Vernon Ortega: Takes takes your whole life, pretty much. I don't even I'm for my daughters and my grandkids because I'm always hustling.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah yeah let me switch gears here just a little bit. Do you have any allergies to medications.
Vernon Ortega: No. None that I'm aware of.
Chris Alliman MD: You take any medications.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Vernon Ortega: How beautiful are my asthma. That's it. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And besides the asthma. Do you have. Do you have any diagnoses, high blood pressure, diabetes, any problems.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Do you know your hepatitis C status.
Vernon Ortega: Not current
Vernon Ortega: Okay, but I still have it. I haven't, I haven't got for the I haven't gone for the treatments.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, so you had hepatitis C, but not true, you know,
Vernon Ortega: I would like to get treated.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, any mental health diagnoses like depression, anxiety, bipolar.
Vernon Ortega: Depression that
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, do you take anything for depression.
Vernon Ortega: I don't. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Are you seeing a counselor or therapist.
Vernon Ortega: I've, I've, I've seen a few, but I'm not currently seeing one now.
What
Vernon Ortega: I have for myself through counseling.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, good.
Chris Alliman MD: Um, I'm with heroin use. Did you ever overdose have to go to the emergency room because of an overdose.
Vernon Ortega: Of time or two.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: When was the last time, would you guess
Vernon Ortega: Oh my god. When I started again she's I don't even
Chris Alliman MD: If you don't know for sure. That's fine. I'm not
Vernon Ortega: Which is, it's been more than 10 years. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Gotcha.
Chris Alliman MD: Had ever been on Suboxone or replacement like methadone or any, anything that way.
Vernon Ortega: I have. I was on methadone. Actually, I've been waiting to get on methadone again. But I i've been in a desperate to quit.
Chris Alliman MD: I talked
Vernon Ortega: To Diego and then he referred me to you guys and that's why I called you guys today.
Vernon Ortega: Okay, so
Vernon Ortega: You know, I'm pretty sincere about quitting. I've been wanting to quit for quite a while.
Chris Alliman MD: Good, good. It's those steps along the way. Right. You want to quit and then
Vernon Ortega: Just want the pain of going doing a cold turkey, because I do it every time. Cold Turkey and the
Chris Alliman MD: Stories that I've heard. Do not sound like fun. My goodness.
Chris Alliman MD: When were you on methadone.
Last
Vernon Ortega: Like two or three years.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. And do you know what goes here. We're taking
Vernon Ortega: I stayed a, um, I think I believe it was 80 or 85 milligrams
Vernon Ortega: I stayed
Chris Alliman MD: Pretty long. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Very good.
Vernon Ortega: I was, I got to where it would carry me over to the next day, you know,
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, I
Vernon Ortega: wasn't looking for a high. I just wanted to
Chris Alliman MD: Be functional. Absolutely. Yeah. When you were on methadone. What did what other processes. Did you find helpful to help support the sobriety.
Vernon Ortega: Pretty much. Hey, I'm pretty much a loner I've become a loner and
Vernon Ortega: I just, I'm my own worst enemy.
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough, fair enough. Did you go through rehab or treatment.
Vernon Ortega: Facilities at any point was
Vernon Ortega: I have, but it was for all call I've never gone for heroin.
Vernon Ortega: Okay but but I don't drink anymore. It's been 333 years that I don't
Chris Alliman MD: Get alcohol. It's killer me that's wow you know
Vernon Ortega: I've had a lot of friends passed away from sources. My ex wife had a liver transplant last year.
Chris Alliman MD: Wow. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, and with hepatitis C, you want to be very careful of that liver right right here that
Vernon Ortega: I know I'm pretty concerned, I do want to get the treatment, since they finally found the cure.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. Yeah, where are you located
Vernon Ortega: I am located in New Mexico so little town called Kota
Chris Alliman MD: Kota. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: At
Vernon Ortega: least an hour drive to every town.
Vernon Ortega: Doesn't
Chris Alliman MD: Else that does El Centro had a clinic up there in Korea.
Vernon Ortega: They do, they do.
Chris Alliman MD: Check with them. Who do you know who the provider is there.
Vernon Ortega: Yeah, and Smith, but I'm not sure. I don't think she does the, the treatments. I think the closest place to go is Espanol I believe
Vernon Ortega: Okay, but I should I should check in.
Chris Alliman MD: Actually always great people and they can get you treated. That's a great way to get started.
Chris Alliman MD: Do you have a primary doctor at this point.
Vernon Ortega: And Smith, yes.
Chris Alliman MD: And that is your primary talk with her about it and see that's the place to start.
Vernon Ortega: Okay.
Vernon Ortega: Yeah, that'll be good.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, good. Um, so when are you mentioned your ex wife, are you married now or divorced or what's your
Vernon Ortega: Divorced
Vernon Ortega: When we were for
Vernon Ortega: 15 years, I believe.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. And the reason I'm asking these questions is just to help with supporting your sobriety and all of this. Are you with anybody at this point or do mainly. My question is, is there a significant other, that's using also. That's my concern.
Vernon Ortega: No, no, I live alone.
Vernon Ortega: I'm not seeing anybody at the present time.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. All right. And you'd mentioned the kids and then grandkids are they around at your place a lot or how does that work out.
Vernon Ortega: No, I usually go see them and I sprinkle they live over there. So I when I can.
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough.
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough. The reason I asked, like I'm going to end up getting you a prescription today for. It's a box, and we're going to get that taken care of. But the reason I asked about the kids.
Chris Alliman MD: Is because with Suboxone the residue that gets on your fingers. The residue around the mouth, three of them. Now the residue that's on the packaging is enough to kill little kids. Basically they lick it, and they overdose. They stop breathing. Oh.
Vernon Ortega: Wow, okay. Oh, I keep everything away from even Mike it and there are you
Chris Alliman MD: 25 and 26 good. I'm very glad to hear that.
Chris Alliman MD: Now, and as we send in the prescription for Suboxone tonight. I'm also going to send in a prescription for Narcan the nasal spray
Chris Alliman MD: Just so you have
Okay.
Vernon Ortega: I
Chris Alliman MD: People don't get it over with. Go ahead.
Vernon Ortega: I do have some
Chris Alliman MD: You have it.
Vernon Ortega: I have some yes
Vernon Ortega: I always have it on
Vernon Ortega: On board.
Chris Alliman MD: Because they are legally required to set
Vernon Ortega: Okay, okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Good only required so
Chris Alliman MD: You can pick it up or not, but there will be refills.
Vernon Ortega: If you do use it.
Chris Alliman MD: Then you can get another one. Okay.
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. And it sounds like you're working, is that correct
Vernon Ortega: No, I was a student. I just finished my semester.
Okay.
Vernon Ortega: was leaked online classes.
Vernon Ortega: Good in any
Value.
Vernon Ortega: Yes, most definitely.
Chris Alliman MD: What are you doing,
Vernon Ortega: Business Management
Vernon Ortega: Excellent. I want to open on my own business.
Chris Alliman MD: Very good. It's a good thing. Sure. Now as you're going through this, who's the support for you as you're going through your recovery process.
Vernon Ortega: Myself, I just have me
Vernon Ortega: My daughter's
Vernon Ortega: Mentioned your
Chris Alliman MD: Parents were around. Are they aware, what's going
Vernon Ortega: Yeah, yeah, but they're not
Vernon Ortega: So much. I mean, the other supporting my decision. Yes, but I
Vernon Ortega: Kind of keep them in the dark, a little bit above
Vernon Ortega: Normal
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. Absolutely. Absolutely. Is there any family history of addiction.
Chris Alliman MD: In your family kids.
Brothers.
Chris Alliman MD: Are
Vernon Ortega: My grandfather was in Hong Kong.
Chris Alliman MD: grandfather was an alcoholic.
Chris Alliman MD: Yes. Okay, anything else in the family.
Vernon Ortega: My daughter was addicted to heroin there for a while and she's done the Methadone program.
Chris Alliman MD: Oh, good. Good for her. That's great.
Chris Alliman MD: Any outstanding legal issues for you, probation.
Vernon Ortega: Parole negative. I've been free and clear of any law for a long time.
Vernon Ortega: Not
Chris Alliman MD: Like me make life easier, that's for sure.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: You mentioned alcohol that you're three years over alcohol. Yes, great. Um, how long were you drink, Helen. Did you drink for
Vernon Ortega: Since I was in high school. Drink quite a while.
Vernon Ortega: Ago and I was having a real hard time
Vernon Ortega: Especially I drink. So that made me quit. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: With the cold turkey also just stopped.
Vernon Ortega: Yes, sir. Wow.
Chris Alliman MD: Strong willed, man. That's great. That'll that'll work well for you. It's good.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah.
Vernon Ortega: I are doing everything cold turkey.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. Go heads the loop. Absolutely. Do you smoke tobacco. I do. How much tobacco. Do you smoke.
Vernon Ortega: A PACK A DAY.
Chris Alliman MD: How long have you smoked for
Vernon Ortega: I have small since I was about 21
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, we're saying about 25 years
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Exactly right. And any other drug use, besides heroin.
Vernon Ortega: I've used cocaine, but not problematic.
Chris Alliman MD: Sure.
Chris Alliman MD: When was the last time. Okay.
Vernon Ortega: Oh, Jesus. I don't even remember the last time I touch that stuff. It's been a long time. I think I was married still when I use that last
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, quite a while ago, then
Vernon Ortega: And just so you can go to my pain.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. And then, have you had any surgeries at any point
Vernon Ortega: BACK SURGERY CSF LASIK surgery on my head because I had a TBI and 92
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Any lasting effects from that.
Chris Alliman MD: Head injury and 92
Vernon Ortega: Memory problems. That's why I got back into school this year because I finally felt confident enough with my memory to go back to school. Sure. And I've been doing hell. Good.
Vernon Ortega: A's and B's
Good.
Chris Alliman MD: Well done, sir. That's awesome. Well done. What back surgery. Did you have
Vernon Ortega: I
Vernon Ortega: They removed the pieces of my spine that were breaking off on
Vernon Ortega: Health, four, and five.
Vernon Ortega: In between there.
Vernon Ortega: So lower back.
Yeah.
Vernon Ortega: So I don't know if it was heavy equipment operating or the heavy lifting or what
Chris Alliman MD: Really caused that
Chris Alliman MD: So yeah, it
Chris Alliman MD: Was that
Vernon Ortega: I was doing both at the time when I hurt my back. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And that's a different back injury from what we were talking about, or is that the same back injury.
Vernon Ortega: That's the same back end.
Chris Alliman MD: Ready. Yes. Okay. Yes.
Vernon Ortega: Okay, what is the one
Chris Alliman MD: How's that back doing for you at this point.
Vernon Ortega: It's still bothers me. I think, well, the doctor told me I was eventually going to be in a wheelchair but
Vernon Ortega: Knock on wood I stealing.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. What do you do for the pain.
Vernon Ortega: I still do my stretches and
Vernon Ortega: This stuff. I learned that physical therapy.
Vernon Ortega: Surgery my stretching my exercising still
Vernon Ortega: Try to keep pretty flexible.
Chris Alliman MD: Good.
Vernon Ortega: That helped a little bit
Chris Alliman MD: Good Suboxone is known to help out with pain. Also, so you might find that it will, it gives you some relief to
Vernon Ortega: I hope so.
Vernon Ortega: Yeah, that's kind of why I was kind of shooting for the Methadone because I know that really helps me for my pain.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, but
Vernon Ortega: I'm not gonna
Vernon Ortega: I don't want to wait for that anymore. I've been waiting for a couple of months and just tired.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, right here. We also with bright heart health. We also have a doctor that does chronic pain management. Now she doesn't use pills or medications, but it's more through awareness.
Chris Alliman MD: And just general lifestyle to help deal with the pain and she has some phenomenal success with it. So as we get stable and the sun. So maybe that's something we can also look at for here.
Vernon Ortega: I would be good. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Be a good option.
Chris Alliman MD: Right.
Chris Alliman MD: So Vernon, I still have a whole bunch of questions to ask you. But
Chris Alliman MD: What do you know about our organization so far. And what we required what we do with you.
Vernon Ortega: This is the first time I hear a bunch of guys first time I talk to you guys, so not very much. I mean,
Vernon Ortega: I know, walking rams and
Vernon Ortega: How they function and
Vernon Ortega: I would assume you guys got a lot of similarities
Chris Alliman MD: Very good. So what we do is we everything happens over the the video chat through through zoom through this video platform.
Chris Alliman MD: And there are two meetings a week.
Chris Alliman MD: One is the group meeting with me therapist and other people that are on Suboxone and we'll talk about when that will be for you. We'll get to that at the end.
Chris Alliman MD: And then the second meeting a week is just with you and the therapist. It's an individual session with the therapist each of those meetings are an hour long
Chris Alliman MD: And generally, what I do is I give you I send in a prescription at group. Time to get you to your therapy appointment. And then when you attend the therapy appointment.
Chris Alliman MD: I send another prescription and to get you back to your group time. So there are two prescriptions, a week.
Chris Alliman MD: And that's generally for about the first month, the idea is to help you get buy in going to the physical going to the behavioral health to the therapy sessions.
Chris Alliman MD: Because we know Suboxone helps with those physical cravings. Right. But the therapy helps with all that mental stuff that's going on that needs to be dealt with also
Vernon Ortega: The depression and all that stuff.
Chris Alliman MD: Makes sense.
Yes, sir.
Definitely
Chris Alliman MD: It all plays into it. Absolutely.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, I'm going to run through the next set of questions here. Okay.
Vernon Ortega: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, so these are some yes or no.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, just thinking back just
Chris Alliman MD: Over the Times using
Chris Alliman MD: If you don't have questions, I can certainly repeat them or rephrase them. So, but we'll just
Chris Alliman MD: Go through them with the queen yes or no. Okay. Right.
Chris Alliman MD: using heroin or taking heroin and larger amounts or over a longer period of time than initially intended
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: And was there a persistent desire or unsuccessful effort to cut down or control the heroin use
Vernon Ortega: I
Vernon Ortega: Really don't want to control
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, fair enough.
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough.
Chris Alliman MD: You don't have to spend a great. Yeah, no, that's fine. That's fine. Did you have to spend a great deal of time trying to get the heroin use the heroin or recover from the
Vernon Ortega: Know it's getting easier and easier to access
Chris Alliman MD: Did you have cravings, or a strong desire to use heroin.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Did heroin use cause earlier to fulfill roles at work at school or at home.
Chris Alliman MD: Did you continue to use heroin. Despite it causing social or relationship problems.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Did you have to give up or reduce important social, occupational or recreational activities because of heroin.
Vernon Ortega: Everything pretty much
Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Have you continue to use heroin in situations that are physically hazardous like driving
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Did you continue using despite knowing that it can cause persistent psychological or physical problems.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Thank you.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, moving on to my next set of questions here.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, so now we're going to run through a list of symptoms, just kind of head to toe again yes or no questions.
Chris Alliman MD: And we're just thinking over the last two weeks.
Chris Alliman MD: If you've had these symptoms over the last two weeks. Okay. All right, so last two weeks. Have you had any fevers.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Night sweats.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Chills
Chris Alliman MD: Yes, fatigue,
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Wait game.
Vernon Ortega: Know,
Chris Alliman MD: Thirst.
Chris Alliman MD: Like your first strong thirst.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Vision changes.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Hearing changes.
Know,
Chris Alliman MD: nasal congestion.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: bloody noses.
Chris Alliman MD: No lip sorts
Chris Alliman MD: Know mouth sores know neck pain.
Vernon Ortega: No.
COUGH.
Vernon Ortega: Mild
Chris Alliman MD: Shortness of breath.
Vernon Ortega: I'm somewhat
Chris Alliman MD: Chest pain.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Stomach ache.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Nausea
Vernon Ortega: No.
Vomiting
Chris Alliman MD: No constipation.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Diarrhea
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Sweet frequent urination.
Chris Alliman MD: Pain with urination.
Chris Alliman MD: Know blood in the urine.
No.
Chris Alliman MD: Hair changes.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Skin changes.
Vernon Ortega: Know,
Chris Alliman MD: Back pain.
Chris Alliman MD: Yes, joint pains.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Muscle cramps.
Chris Alliman MD: No difficulty walking
Vernon Ortega: At times,
Chris Alliman MD: When
No.
Chris Alliman MD: Paralysis
Chris Alliman MD: Headaches
Nope.
Vernon Ortega: The
Dizziness
Oh, no.
No weakness.
Vernon Ortega: I'm mild
Vernon Ortega: Depression.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: I missed that, sir. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Anxiety.
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: sleep problems.
Vernon Ortega: No.
Chris Alliman MD: Hopelessness
Chris Alliman MD: worthlessness
Vernon Ortega: Know,
Chris Alliman MD: And suicidal thoughts.
Nope.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Very good. Thank you.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, now we get to the fun part where you the vital signs and physical exam.
Vernon Ortega: Through the computer. Hey, Andrew, Scott.
Vernon Ortega: I'm
Chris Alliman MD: Sorry. Yeah, but I've been watching you, and you've been breathing normally. So I'm going to put a normal respiration rate of 18
Chris Alliman MD: How, how tall are you,
Vernon Ortega: I'm six one.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. And how much do you weigh
Vernon Ortega: Like around 175
Vernon Ortega: Okay, yes.
Chris Alliman MD: And do you know how to check your pulse.
Vernon Ortega: I do
Chris Alliman MD: Excellent. So what I'm going to do is a timer for six seconds. I'll give you a start and stop until you start and stop and during that time, you're good measure, you're going to count the number of pulses that you get
Vernon Ortega: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Tell me when you found your pulse.
Vernon Ortega: I got it.
Chris Alliman MD: Ready, set, go.
Chris Alliman MD: And stop.
Vernon Ortega: You Devon.
Chris Alliman MD: Right. So we take that times 10 and we get 110 for that.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, good. It's up there.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, so the next part.
Chris Alliman MD: Is just pushing on your stomach.
Chris Alliman MD: From kind of right under your ribs, all the way down.
Chris Alliman MD: Let me know if there's any pains as you do that.
Chris Alliman MD: Nope.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. All right. And that's about the extent of what we can do.
Vernon Ortega: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, sounds good.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, so I have an email address for you here of
Chris Alliman MD: S E g RA n SP 086
Vernon Ortega: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: At GMAIL. COM. Okay.
Vernon Ortega: Mr. C rooms view.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay.
Vernon Ortega: Very good.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. And is the is the OH zero or is it an old
Vernon Ortega: Know,
Chris Alliman MD: An
Old time oh zero
Chris Alliman MD: Yes, good, good, good. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Right. So first of all, we have to pick a group time for you and figure out when a good group time would be
Chris Alliman MD: Would you happen to be available Mondays at 12 noon from 12 to one.
Chris Alliman MD: Yes, excellent. I would like to put you in that group. We've got a group that's starting up, there's lots of room in there. There's some other new people, but that would be a good one to connect you with
Vernon Ortega: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Right. So Monday. Well done. One
Chris Alliman MD: So the therapist in that group. Her name is serene.
Chris Alliman MD: And she'll be in touch with you about making a therapy.
Appointment
Chris Alliman MD: Probably sometime this week, I would imagine. We'll be in touch with you. She's also the therapist that then helps to run our groups on Monday. I'll be there. She'll be there. The first
Chris Alliman MD: First part of the group is where I check in with you to see how you're doing with the medication that you're checking at taking if there's any side effects.
Chris Alliman MD: And when your next therapy appointment is we see how you're doing. And, and I do that with each other. The patients that are there, and then Serena takes over and does a group therapy session for the second half.
Chris Alliman MD: During that second half. I'm then send I send in your prescription during the second half, while she's doing her thing.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. Okay, good. So right now I think
Chris Alliman MD: You're the fourth person in that group. And I actually need six people in there to get to TO HAVE SERENA part of the group.
Chris Alliman MD: Six people in the group ensures that three people show up and then we can actually have the group so
Chris Alliman MD: I still I still have people come into the group, because I do that medical check in part, make sure you're doing okay with the medication. We just don't have the therapy, part two we get enough people and then we start getting that going
Chris Alliman MD: Ok, ok. Now, the way you get into the group is that you call to the virtual clinic to do your check in. Initially, okay.
Vernon Ortega: On Monday.
Chris Alliman MD: What's that
Vernon Ortega: On Monday, or tomorrow.
Chris Alliman MD: On Monday, okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And you need to call in at least 30 minutes before our group. So that means calling in by 1130 or maybe even 11 o'clock. Okay, calling
Chris Alliman MD: A call the virtual clinic is like going to the doctor's office.
Chris Alliman MD: Or calling the doctor's office. There's always aligned and there's always paperwork. Right, so don't call five minutes beforehand, expecting that you're going to get in the group.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay.
Vernon Ortega: I'll probably do it first thing on
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. And that works good. You can actually do it up to six hours before group happens
Chris Alliman MD: Perfect. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: The what they'll do is go through your paperwork, make sure everything's taken care of. And then if you've called in really early. They're not going to hold you on the phone, the whole time.
Chris Alliman MD: What they'll do is have you get off and then once I give them the new zoom room number, they'll email it to you, so you'll be able to get on to the zoom room.
Chris Alliman MD: No, the zoom the zoom room number changes every meeting. It's never the same. That helps us make sure that you go do your paperwork to get the zoom room number before you come in and see us so
Vernon Ortega: Kind of intro
Chris Alliman MD: A little bit that way. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. There are a couple rules that we have for group one is no substance use, right, and that includes alcohol, and that includes tobacco tobacco can be a trigger for other folks.
Chris Alliman MD: We do ask that you be in a good quiet place with nobody else around because nobody wants other folks hearing their stories and their issues right want to keep this confidential.
Chris Alliman MD: We do also ask
Chris Alliman MD: What
Chris Alliman MD: Oh good lighting be on time. Be respectful, all that kind of good stuff. So just
Vernon Ortega: The common sense stuff.
Chris Alliman MD: It's really just the common sense stuff. Absolutely. Absolutely.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. So the next thing we need to do is talk about the Suboxone itself. Okay, so
Chris Alliman MD: With Suboxone if you take Suboxone too early too close to when you've last used heroin Suboxone can kick you into those really bad withdrawals.
Vernon Ortega: I know
Vernon Ortega: Okay, okay, that
Chris Alliman MD: You know, so we want to wait until you're in moderate withdrawals, not to when you're just feeling the beginnings of withdrawals, not when your way in the bad part right but kind of in the middle.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Now, what we understand through sciences that usually takes about three out of three days or 72 hours to get to moderate withdrawals. Now for different people. That's different. That's just an average. How long would it take you to get to moderate withdrawals. Do you think
Vernon Ortega: I think about 12 hours or so.
Vernon Ortega: 12 hours.
Vernon Ortega: Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough. Now I just want you to be careful with that. Right. Because again, we don't want to kick you into the bad withdrawals, but you'll be the gate, the judge, you'll be the one to gauge when it's time to start taking the medication.
Chris Alliman MD: OK. OK.
Chris Alliman MD: So I'm going to send these. Okay, so my next step here is I'm going to give you the instructions as to how to take the Suboxone for the first four days. And I'm going to email these instructions to you. Also, so you don't have to memorize them. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Now the these instructions that I give you are going to be very simplified when I send them to the pharmacy because they can't fit all these words on the on the packaging. So it's going to be very simplified so just follow the email instructions that I send you. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright. So the way it works is on the first day after, when you're in mud withdrawals, you're going to take one Suboxone film.
Chris Alliman MD: And then you're going to wait and two to four hours later, you can take half a film.
Chris Alliman MD: And then if you need to. And then two to four hours after that you can take another half of film, if you need to. If you don't need to don't take them.
Chris Alliman MD: But they're there in KC, okay. On day two, you're going to start the day with whatever you took for day one. So if you only took one film total day one. That's what you start with, they do. But if you ended up taking twofold two films, day one. That's what you start with on day two.
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And then two to four hours later, you can take another half film and two to four hours after that you can take another half of film.
Chris Alliman MD: Day three, you're going to take your total from day to but there's no extra half films during the day.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay.
Vernon Ortega: And that I take red one.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, but you can spread it out during the day. If you choose to. That's okay. The general recommendation is actually that you take them all at one time. First thing in the morning.
Chris Alliman MD: And get the medication at that appropriate level, but many people do split it up. And usually if one is also using Suboxone to help out with pain, they're splitting it up dosing during the day.
Vernon Ortega: I'd probably been split it up a little bit, at least.
Vernon Ortega: Yeah yeah
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, I think that's fine. I'll leave that in your hands, and you can be the judge of that.
Chris Alliman MD: Day for
Chris Alliman MD: It drops down from three down to two films a day. And that's where you're at, at that point. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: There's no extra half films during the day.
Chris Alliman MD: And then we'll be able to check in and kind of see what's happening where you're at, with things if that dose is working for you. What we need to do.
Vernon Ortega: Okay. Sounds good.
Chris Alliman MD: Good, good. Let me check something here. I need to make sure that I've got the correct pharmacy for you here in our computer system.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, so I have Walgreens on Riverside Drive.
Vernon Ortega: Yes, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: Excellent. Sounds good. So it's pretty slick. I can get to send this in just through the computer. There is no physical prescription that goes to you. It just goes to your computer directly to the pharmacy so
Vernon Ortega: works out pretty well.
Chris Alliman MD: So I'm going to get that sent in here pretty soon after we get off the phone. I'm going to send you two emails.
Chris Alliman MD: One with the instructions around group some information about constipation I name and then also the purpose name and then also checking into instructions checking into the virtual clerk.
Chris Alliman MD: And then I can do a second email that has those Suboxone instructions that I that we talked about. So you'll have those
Chris Alliman MD: All right, Vernon what what questions do you have a lot of information.
Vernon Ortega: You're pretty clear on everything.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, man. That sounds good. I would encourage you, with your phone set reminders, put it on the calendar that you've got group on Monday, and you need to check in Monday at 12 noon.
Many
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. Many people forget. So put those reminders in because that's when you get your medication.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, for
Chris Alliman MD: This time around with it when I'm going to do is going to send in a four day prescription, but then I'm going to put a reminder in my phone that in four days. I need to send in the second prescription for you.
Chris Alliman MD: It will be films twice a day, and it will be enough to get you back through our group time. Okay.
Vernon Ortega: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And then we'll, we'll check in and see how you're doing and work it from there.
Chris Alliman MD: Perfect. All right.
Chris Alliman MD: Good to see you, man. Looking forward to seeing you on Monday. And I'm excited for you. I think you'll do really, really well with this.
Vernon Ortega: Thank you. So do I.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. Excellent. All right, you can go ahead and sign out now, I'll see you on Monday.
Vernon Ortega: Alright, well do have a good evening.
Chris Alliman MD: You too. Bye bye.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright so dictating on this patient, you should have most of the information they're
Chris Alliman MD: Psychic impression patient with substance abuse and depression and anxiety symptoms patients level stresses moderate and includes economic and relationship problems patient has a strong sense of self and good object relations appears abstract on exam.
Chris Alliman MD: Patient
Chris Alliman MD: Reports a history of psychiatric treatment know hospitalizations root systems, you should have vitals, the heartbeat of 110 restorations 18 height six feet one inch weighed 275 pounds physical exam was normal.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright assessment employee number one opioid use disorder.
Chris Alliman MD: Will follow the induction plan as listed p&p reviewed and nothing was present.
Chris Alliman MD: Patient will be started with the induction plan and then transitioned over to Suboxone eight dash to one twice a day, nor can will be sent in
Chris Alliman MD: His group will be Mondays 12 to one with Serena as the therapist.
Chris Alliman MD: Right number next to his back pain with and then also chronic pain syndrome.
Chris Alliman MD: Patient with long standing back pain from previous injury and history of surgery.
Chris Alliman MD: Will use Suboxone to help out with the pain. Also, and then also as patient becomes stable. Consider getting him connected with Tracy Jackson for pain management.
Chris Alliman MD: Number next depression patient to connect with therapy to work on his depression number next hepatitis C patient to speak with his primary care provider and Smith at El Centro in in Quito day
Chris Alliman MD: And see about getting on hepatitis C treatment.
Chris Alliman MD: Right, that's it. Thanks.